
Author J. Connolly updated December 2017

Purpose: Moves standardized location files from Step 1 to species spatial libraries. Additional updates include points
and line buffered by 15 meters so they are area based for overlap, species with multiple files are merged into a single
file, attributes updated to match the current master list, and old files/files for delisted species are archived.

If the file is removed from the overlap analysis the reason is appended to the beginning of the file name.  Multiple
files that were merged into a single file are also moved to the archived folder.  All archived files have the date of
the archive appended to the end of the file.

15 meter buffer on either side for a total of 30 meters set by ESA team Fall 2016-  matched the pixel size of the
rasters

NOTE BEFORE STARTING CREATE AN ARCHIVED BACK-UP OF THE MOST RECENT SPATIAL LIBRARY
NOTE: Steps are completed on both the generalized and non-generalized files
#TODO do we need to retain the non-generalized files?

# TODO Streamline so of the steps if possible
Step 1: After creating an archived of the current spatial libraries, moved  new or updated files into the libraries.
The dictionary file used to identify the geodatabase(s) with the new/updated files allows for multiple gdbs to move at
once.  Each row in the csv dictionary should be the path to the re-projected / standardized files. Currently this step
is split into CH and Range but these could be merged over time.  A second generalized files is also created that removes
extraneous vertices, these are the files used for the composite. The generalized files are faster to process because the
geometry is less complicated.

Steps 2-8 are done for both the generalized and non generalized libraries
Step 2: Archive files for any species that has  been delisted or will be excluded from the overlap analysis because they
have been identified as extinct, possibly extinct, qualitative, or occurring exclusively on uninhabited islands. This
is done by comparing the current master list to an old master list for delisted species; archiving any species no
longer active.  For species excluded from overlap, a list excluded the species each category is generated and used
in the current_master variables, and the current  master list is used as the old list.

Step 3 is done in loop until all updated files are archived, duplicates addressed and all species are accounted for. Run
the check duplicates script to find species with multiple files.  Identify the species with an updated files where the
old file she be archived in list format.  # NOTE Files that are being replaced with multiple files must be manually
archived before running the archive script! this can be looped into the routine in the future# The listed of updated
species becomes an input variable for the archives_Files_updated script, and run it. Run BufferLine_point to buffer all
files not in polygon format. Polygon format is need to calculate an area.  Run MergeDups to merge all species that have
duplicate files that need to be merged into a single file. Be sure all files that are being completely replaced area
already archived or they will be included in the merge.  Run the Check for Missing scripts to see if any species are
missing a spatial file.  *These are separate because the filtered on the master list is different for range and critical
habitat files.*

Do not proceed to Step 4until spatial libraries are locked for the current update.

Note- merged files may bomb if a geometry error occurs during the merge.  If this happens manually run the repair
geometry tool and restart script

Steps 4-8 : verifies all files are in the format needed for overlap; one multipart polygon per species (step4),
if any species is represented as multiple polygons step 5 is used to dissolve the files to a single multipart polygon
per species; checks all of the species info is current (step 6); rectifies any geometry error that may have come up
during processing (step 7) and confirms all files are in the NAD83 projection to start (step8).

******NOTE STEPS 5-8 are critical to makes sure files have all information needed, and are in the correct format before
generating files for overlap.  If a mistake is found in one of the files overlap will need to be re-done for the
impacted species groups******* These checks do take a while to process!

Step A: this will generate extract HUC12 files used for aquatics if we continue to do this.  these files are than used
like 'updated files' and run through this routine starting with step1.  Species attribute data will be added in step 6
FILE NAME NEEDS TO BE ADDED FOR DISSOLVE
