J. Connolly Updated 1/3/2018 , August 2017

Federal land information data download from the national map of USGS winter of 2015 - not updated since check dec 2017
https://nationalmap.gov/small_scale/mld/fedlanp.html
This data set was used  because it was the same data used by FESTF when they conducted their federal lands analysis. It
was compared with the protected lands database PADUS in the summer/fall of 2017.  PADUS did not include a number of the
DOD holdings along with several other missing locations for this reason it was decided to not use the PADUS dataset but
stick with the one from the national map - ESA discussion summer/fall 2017

Time line to complete update:
Time line Assumptions:

When Use layers are complete-

Run Step1_ListUses on all folders and GDB - it will run recursively but it can take a long time - to speed up run by group
eg. chemicals, on/off field and individual gdbs

output will include information about each use layer including cell size, and projections,
    ~NOTE different formats , eg-euc, on/off field, must have the same cell size if they will be included in the
    overlap runs!~

Merge all output tables and organize layers
    Set the file structure/Workspaces for final use layers gdbs
        To streamline overlap runs organize use layers by region and projections -Set one projection per region

    From merged output set Final Projection, Final Path, L48/NL48, Include in Overlap Runs,	Run Group,
    Overlap script,	Input variable
        -Run groups include Agg layers (Non Ag and Aggregate Ag) , Yearly (Yearly grouped to GenGlass), and On/Off Field
        -Set final projection to streamlined selection
        -Files that excluded from overlap include snap raster, or binary layers where all needed information is in euc
        layer
        -File included in overlap runs - Check all cell sizes and verify different formats of the same use layer all
        have the same cell size - if not ask for them to be re-sampled to the same size

Use final table as the input csv for Step2_Structure_Project_Rasters to move files to final file structure
CONUS ~ 4 hours AK ~ 1 hour others less
- reprojected as needed using the final projection columns
- there needs to be a file .prj file in projection folder with a matching name
-Mirror file structure of current library - * be sure to set up the symbology library with the new files
- By region gdb
    - UseLayers
    - OnOff Field
    - Just CONUS- yearly CDL
    - One for all regions - SnapRasters

Other things to check

1.	Do we have all uses included in each of the action areas  by chemical by region?
2.	Do we have a use layer for each of the label uses we are mapping? - label use to use layer crosswalk
3.	Are the aggregate years Euclidean distance?
a.	Viewable in the attribute tables - values should range from 1-1500
b.	Areas that are not associated with counties filled in? Such as the city of Alexandria
i.	Open one of the CONUS  Ag layer, zoom to Alexandria and see if there is a hole
4.	Are there any use layers with smaller cell size? - Regional use layers
    - Viewable in the file properties - values should range from 1-1500
    - Right click in arc map or arc catalog go to properties - third line down under raster information should be 30,30
5.	Where any of the file corrupted during copying?
a.	Files would not open in ArcMap, or the preview would not be available in Arc Catalog
6.	Is the projection standardized by region or does this  need to be done?
7.	Are there any missing use layers?
8.	Did Steve note any other problems?



